Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Let's talk a little bit more in depth about
that other MVP that I called the shadow button.
All right.
Now, shadow buttons are fake buttons put on an app
that just track when they're clicked and that's literally
it. If you're scratching your head wondering
where you've seen this before,
you might not remember. They're pretty subtle.
Here's one I actually found the other day.
If you guys ever go to uncommongoods.com,
try to log in in the sales page with Facebook.
What you'll see is an image pop up or text pop up
and say "Thank you for voting to add Facebook login."
Great example of a shadow button.
Shadow buttons are good because they give you great data.
That's pretty much as close as you're going to get to showing that someone is in fact interested in your new feature.
It's also pretty easy to do.
Your developer can probably do it over lunch.
The downside though is obvious.
It doesn't look good.
No one who has ever interacted with a shadow button
said "Wow, that was awesome."
They probably think "What was that? Is this broken?"
Because that's what it looks like.
It looks like your site is broken.
Now, that's okay if you're maintaining a product that has
a reputation for having bugs and has a user population
that's just gotten used to it.
I'm not saying be complacent about it.
You should fix your bugs.
But let's just say, if Udemy, for example, had a new
feature, when I clicked on it it just did nothing, well,
I wouldn't even notice, because, let's be honest, I probably
ran into 15 different bugs and broken things
before I even got to the shadow button.
Shadow buttons are sneaky.
Great data, but they create a universally
negative response from your users.
It's just a question of whether or not the user
cares about the polish of your product.
If you do decide to go this route,
let's cover some best practices.
Number one, do it just like Uncommon Goods did it,
like you saw. Put a message just says "Thank you for
clicking" and acknowledge what it is. That softens the
blow because intentional bug is way better than
a bug that they aren't aware of and simply can't fix.
Number two is limit the amount of users
that see this as much as possible.
You can calculate what number of people
need to see it to be statistically significant.
Be as close to that line as possible.
In summary, it's easy to do, it's very valid data,
generally not a good thing for your brand,
so have a hard think about whether or not you think your users
are tolerant enough to be okay with this type of testing.